This is my first conference and I am not very good in English, so forgive me if I say
something wrong. I will speak about the footnotes in multi-column sections. I
worked on this in last year, a year ago. I thought it can be an interesting
problem. Oh, I had to go back. Okay, so I got a back ticket to a fix and it was a
very simple ticket at first sight. It was only just a one line text and
somehow the writer displayed it as two pages and while the word was displayed
just one page. Beside the one line text there was a footnote and its sections
has two columns and there was a continuous section break. First I talked,
it's just a problem about the section break, some why it's changed to a page
break or something like that, but that was an instinct. It was a strange thing
why the footnote and the column was needed. If I deleted any of them then the
writer changed to one page and it was okay, but I wasn't, it was changed why
it is needed. So I started to debug to find where it's become to a page and I
found the problem in the layout in calculation and there was even a
comment about it stating that the footnote container causes to
maximize size in this case. This function to maximize function will calculate if we
have to maximize the column frame, the whole section frame, to the whole page
and it has several conditions like is footnote at end and is endnote at end.
They are checkboxes on the GUI named the collected end of text and the
collected end of section for end nodes. They are, they was false in this case. Oh
the hasfollow isn't matter now, it was false in this case too, but there was
another function that contains footnote container. I checked this function and
this function just blindly check if the section have column frame tried that
has of footnote container frame tried and if it has one then it returned the
first one it found. So now it seems the function was directly
righted like this way. So the question is was why do we want to break a page in
this case? I even checked the git who changed it or something like that but it
was in the very first commit I could reach in the initial import at 2000
year and nobody changed it and I was even wonder why this many condition is
needed not just the first one I found but the not collected end is still needed
for it. For this I had to analyze the frames how they work so I listed the
frames related to footnote some case. The footnote frame is for one footnote
entity it can contain a text frame and this can be in a footnote container
frame and that frame contains a list of footnotes. It's important it's not
two-dimensional list it's just a simpler list that it can display and this
footnote container frame can be in a page frame or a column frame. So what is
important in it that the footnote container frame does not really support
columns it just I could say just one column of footnotes and that's all but
we can put this container frame in any of the column frame event so if we put
this container frames in every column frame then it will seems like if we
support it's like support multi columns. So in one case we want footnote like
multi columns as like it's in the world in the other case we want if we don't
check the collected end text we want the footnote to be at the page and in the
other case we want the footnote to be in the columns end in physically but as we
say in the display and it can be true only if the column end is equal to the
page end so that's why they maximize the size of the column to the page size. In
our case it's not a good idea because in my test case there was only one
footnote and it doesn't need to be multi columns but if we wouldn't do this what
I showed in the previous slide there could be a contradiction like I made a
test document there is two sections I checked the collected end of text which
means I want the footnote to be after the section end there is two columns at the
first section and three columns at the second section it's very good in this
way but if we would change the collected end of text we would uncheck this
I mean we want all of this footnote at the end of the page then how many columns
you want to how many columns you want it's a contradiction we can't say that
two or three because any of them could be wrong. So what we should need we
should be able to have column childrens for the container frame because it's not
should be but it must be it just should be like words able to have indifferent
number of columns at page as many as in the text so we should have a
ability for the users to choose how many columns you want in the footnote but
we should keep the ability to that's all okay sorry and it's almost end.